The most common breed of cat is the domestic shorthair.
Bengal cats are the best cats.
Female cats generally hate human women.
Cats are amazing creatures that are compassionate and caring.
Cats are extremely sneaky and stealthy creatures.
Cats like to eat your eyelids first because it's like jerky to them.
The domestic housecat is a member of the family Felidae.
There is a cat that lived to be nineteen years old and in his prime weighed 25 pounds of pure muscle.
Cats and dogs are usually portrayed as enemies in the media.
There is a type of cat has beautiful, long, fluffy ginger colored hair.
Some cats like to sleep.
Cats have a third eyelid, known as the nictitating membrane, that covers their eye to protect from injury or while they are in very deep sleep.
Cats can see in the dark.
A person on the internet had a grey cat named lucy.
Cats have four legs.
Cats are enjoyable little critters with unique personalities that vary widely.
There is a cat that when she is excited or wants something, she stands up on her two back legs and looks up at you.
Some cats when adopted believe their owners to be their monther.
There was a siemese cat who ran away after it's owner moved.
Cats are cute.
Cats will, when they find a mouse, bring it to it's owners room.
Cats have 500 skeletal muscles.
Cats have 230 bones.
Cat's loves to play with paper bags.
Cats are selfish which makes them pretty good pets for lazy people.
Cats can cause damage to furniture by scratching with their claws.
Many cats enjoy hunting small animals such as mice and rabbits.
Some cats are completely awesome, while others are destructive hell-demons.
Cats whiskers help them to navigate in the night.
Cats love to string play.
Cats are very mild-mannered and well-trained.
Cats are mammals.
It takes much more effort to befriend a cat, than a dog.
The cats are scientifically known as Felis silvestris catus.
Virtually all calico cats are females.
Cats should be neutered to avoid overpopulation.
Cats genetically cannot taste sweetness.
There is a cat named Tomas, He is super cute.
Maine Coon cats can typically be identified by the fur shaped M on their foreheads.
Some cats eat and sleep all day. They are fun to play with and smell really good.
Cats are intelligent and independent creatures that make great companions for people who lead a busy lifestyle.
It is best not to give a cat ordinary food since canned cat food is much more beneficial.
Cats make wonderful pets for the elderly.
There is a cat that loves being draped over a person's shoulders like a scarf.
Some cats like the sound of whistling.
Cats are not pack animals.
My cat likes to defy expectations- never does the same thing twice.
Cats are not as cute as kittens.
Cats are very lazy yet very warm creatures.
When cats are mad at you they like to pee on your things.
Cats are the cutest animals in the world.
Persian house cats have round shaped faces.
cats are evil but simply adorable.
Cats are misleading animals that should not be domesticated.
Some people are allergic to cats, but enjoy being around them anyway.
Adult male cats are a pound heavier than adult female cats.
Cats make you work for their affection; They don't sell out the way dogs do.
Only female cats can be Calico.
During the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII proclaimed cats as evil, leading to people killing thousands of cats.
Cats are feline vertebrates with a tail.
Some people don't like cats because they only love you when you feed them.
At times cats are used as replacements for dead family members.
Cats have an organ inside their mouths called the Jacobson's organ.  This organ is responsible for a cat's heightened senses.
Cats slowly blink their eyes at their humans to indicate friendliness and not being a threat.
Persian cats are one of the most popular breeds of cats!
Get your cat spayed or neutered.
Cats are often infected with a organism called toxoplasma.
Sex isnt pleasurable for female cats it is in fact quite painful for them.
Long hair cats cause less allergies than short hair cats.
Cats purr when they are happy.
Cats were domesticated about 10,000 years ago by the ancient Egyptians.
Cats demonstrate their superior hunting ability through their pursuit of the fabled red dot.
My cat seems to enjoy sticking her head into people's shoes.
Cats can be diabetic.
If you buy your cat a toy, the cat will like the box the toy came in more than the toy itself.
Cat owners tend to be female.
Cats have a tendency to be distracted easily by fast moving like a moving laser dot.
Some people find cats to be irritating animals, obivously they don't have catfacts.
Cats can be very unique companions.
There is a kitten named caley loves to play with the water in the bath tub.
There is a cat that weighs nineteen pounds, and his stomach drags the floor when he walks.
Someone somewhere has a cat that is a long-haired tortoiseshell with white, brown, and gray fur.
Cats are funny, like a woman, want attention only when they are ready.
all cats are born blind and the ability to see comes during the first couple of weeks after birth.
My cat does not drink out of a still bowl. It will only drink out of the moving fountain or the fish bowl (but will not eat/attack the fish at all).
Cats are very agile, and some will hunt every day.
Cats can fall from high heights and yet still be undamaged to the bone and muscle structure of their legs.
Female cats do not ovulate until the male has penetrated them.
Cat saliva can cause allergic reactions in some people.
Cats are less fun than dogs.
Tom cats have a barbed penis that will ruin the vaginal walls of a queen, rendering her unusable to the other toms, meaning that his seed will be passed on. 
My cat, Nicky likes to sleep in the dryer on top of all the clean clothes.
My cat likes to sleep on my yoga mat.
In ancient Egypt, cats were considered sacred to the goddess Bast, and as a result were sometimes mummified.
A random internet user's cat has a chipped left nail on her right paw.
Some cats actually have super natural powers, and are immortal.
Cats love to sit inside of boxes.
The first domesticated cats date back to the time of the Egyptians.
Many cats mistake human faces for cat beds.
Cat's shed non-stop.
Cats enjoying soaking up solar power in order to power their lazers.
Cats have been proven to be able to land on their feet from falls as high as four stories.
Some cats like to fetch, like dogs do.
There is a cat who is a master of the instant death palm strike.
If you tickle a cat's lips, the cat will pretend not to enjoy it.
Cats can jump over very large fences.
Some cats age just like humans.
Cats have better hearing than humans.
Cats do not often resort to capslock while talking on the internet.
Cats do not really have nine lives!
House cats generally have 18 claws.
cats get stressed when moved to a new house, catnip helps de-stress them.
Some cats are capable of telepathic communication.
Cats can have many different personalities; each cat is unique.
Cats with two different color eyes have a particularly strong psycho-kinesis
Cats are actually a woman's best friend!
Cat's sometimes hiss at bubbles, thinking they are under attack.
The typical cat has two eyes, one nose, one mouth and whiskers.
Chai tea is a repressing agent for cats psychic powers.
The reason cat urine is so potent in smell and concentration is due to their evolution from desert cats.
Male calico cats are very rare and usually sterile.
Some cats come with many names; such as Lucy or Goose Goose.
Cats have the ability to squeeze through small spaces, such as under a fence.
Cats named buffy have a habbit of hunting rouge vampire cats.
Cutting cats whiskers is bad to do because they rely on them for balance.
Cats enjoy waking up their human owners at 6am on Saturday mornings.
Domesticated cats are actually deadly killers.
Cats are usually more independent animals compared to other pets.
Cats are unreliable creatures- you can't depend on them to do anything.
Cats are soft, warm, and dangerous wild cards.
Cats can learn to play tag, by chasing them and then running away as they chase you back.
Dorito's Cool ranch chips, are actually just crack for cats.
After opening the front door,  the colder it is outside, the longer a cat will decide if he want to stay or go.
Sphynx cats are hairless cats that need to be bathed every couple of days; thankfully they like water!
Some cats manipulate their owners using subtle hints and full blown brain washing tactics.
Cats who eat dog food are traitors, and will be hunted by the ruling council.
A common form of cat assult is to attack the shins of the human enemy.
Cats developed the fur their currently have as a way to manipulate humans.
When a cat winks at you it is a sign that they like and trust you.
Contrary to popular belief, most cats are unable to digest dairy milk and will get an upset stomach.
House cats branched off from the large wild cats.
Many people are manipulated by cats.
Cats only enter human work places to spy.
Calico cats are always female, except when they cross dress.
Sharing tuna with a cat, is an ancient ritual to become cat women.
Cats enjoy tinsel during the holiday times!
Cats chase laser pointers due to their resemblence to their arch nemsis.
Cat's eyes glow because of a special reflective layer called tapetum lucidum.
Cats have barbs on their tongues to help them lap up water?
Cats don't die from falling from a tall place.
Pure black cats are part of the ancient cat voodo cult.
Cats whiskers help them sense the world around them.
Cats like pokemon use defense curl.
Cats who are abused always get revenge.
Cats never meow to each other, they only purr.
Catnip makes cats act happy because of of a chemical called nepetalactone.
Cats absolutely love the taste of milk, but it turns out that most of them are allergic to it.
Cats are the most athletic during the summer.
Cats sleep under beds in order to spy on their owners.
Cats enjoying stealing humans property to cause strife.
Cats with emerald eyes are capable of human speech.
Cats enjoy being scratched on their heads and tummies.
Cats can not taste sweetness at all.
PETA is actually controlled by a shadowy group of cats.
Cats enjoy a good game of hockey.
Some cats have been known, from time to time, to confuse your leg with a large slab of bacon, and will treat it as such, much to your dismay.
Cats despite trying to take over the world, enjoy having their stomach scratched.
Things cats do are ridiculous.
Cats are incapable of seeing windows.
A cat always lands in four legs, from what ever distance it jumps.
Cats who play fetch are sleeper agents.
My cat is fat and lazy, the only time he comes to hang out is when he is hungry.
Siamese cats get their name from Siam - a country now known as Thailand.
Cats poop outside their litter box if they are sick or stressed out.
Did you know that cats were often buried alive with Egyptian Pharaohs?
A cat will spend nearly 30% of her life grooming herself.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks - between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
A cat’s hearing is better than a dog’s. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
n Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat's dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
Some cats tolerate Jason(s).
Most cats like Ryan.
Justin loves fist-bumping cats.
Luke is actually a cat in disguise.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that's for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals' canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a pane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level
The technical term for a cat's hairball is a bezoar
A group of cats is called a clowder
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed
A cat cannot climb head first down a tree because its claws are curved the wrong way
Cats make about 100 different sounds
A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with witchcraft
Cats are the most popular pet in North American Cats are North America's most popular pets
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S.
A cat's hearing is better than a dog's
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance
A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound
Some cats have survived falls of over 20 meters
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face
A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans
A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans
A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae
Many cat owners think their cats can read their minds
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear
Cats have about 20,155 hairs per square centimeter
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London
A cat has 230 bones in its body
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins
A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves
Grown cats have 30 teeth
The largest cat breed by mean weight is the Savannah, at 10kg
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea
Around the world, cats take a break to nap —a catnap— 425 million times a day
In homes with more than one cat, it is best to have cats of the opposite sex. They tend to be better housemates.
Cats are unable to detect sweetness in anything they taste
Perhaps the oldest cat breed on record is the Egyptian Mau, which is also the Egyptian language's word for cat
In one litter of kittens, there could be multiple father cats
Teeth of cats are sharper when they're kittens. After six months, they lose their needle-sharp milk teeth
Collectively, kittens yawn about 200 million time per hour
According to the International Species Information Service, there are only three Marbled Cats still in existence worldwide.  One lives in the United States.
Cats show affection and mark their territory by rubbing on people. Glands on their face, tail and paws release a scent to make its mark
Maine Coons are the most massive breed of house cats. They can weigh up to around 24 pounds
If you killed a cat in the ages of Pharaoh, you could've been put to death
Most cats will eat 7 to 20 small meals a day. This interesting fact is brought to you by Nature's Recipe®
Most cats don't have eyelashes
Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes
Cats who eat too much tuna can become addicted, which can actually cause a Vitamin E deficiency
Cats can pick up on your tone of voice, so sweet-talking to your cat has more of an impact than you think
Some cats can survive falls from as high up as 65 feet or more
Genetically, cats' brains are more similar to that of a human than a dog's brain
If your cat's eyes are closed, it's not necessarily because it's tired. A sign of closed eyes means your cat is happy or pleased
Cats CAN be lefties and righties, just like us. More than forty percent of them are, leaving some ambidextrous
Cats have the skillset that makes them able to learn how to use a toilet
Each side of a cat's face has about 12 whiskers
Landing on all fours is something typical to cats thanks to the help of their eyes and special balance organs in their inner ear. These tools help them straighten themselves in the air and land upright on the ground.
Eating grass rids a cats' system of any fur and helps with digestion
Cats have 24 more bones than humans
Black cats aren't an omen of ill fortune in all cultures. In the UK and Australia, spotting a black cat is good luck
The Maine Coon is appropriately the official State cat of its namesake state
The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime
Sometimes called the Canadian Hairless, the Sphynx is the first cat breed that has lasted this long—the breed has been around since 1966
Sir Isaac Newton, among his many achievements, invented the cat flap door
In North America, cats are a more popular pet than dogs. Nearly 73 million cats and 63 million dogs are kept as household pets
Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago
Outdoor cats' lifespan averages at about 3 to 5 years; indoor cats have lives that last 16 years or more
Cats have the cognitive ability to sense a human's feelings and overall mood
Cats prefer their food at room temperature—not too hot, not too cold
Bobtails are known to have notably short tails -- about half or a third the size of the average cat
A fingerprint is to a human as a nose is to a cat
Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10
Cats came to the Americas from Europe as pest controllers in the 1750s
According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight
Cats use their whiskers to measure openings, indicate mood and general navigation
Blue-eyed cats have a high tendency to be deaf, but not all cats with blue eyes are deaf
Ancient Egyptians first adored cats for their finesse in killing rodents—as far back as 4,000 years ago
The color of York Chocolates becomes richer with age. Kittens are born with a lighter coat than the adults
Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death
Cats actually have dreams, just like us. They start dreaming when they reach a week old
It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own
A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose
Talk about Facetime: Cats greet one another by rubbing their noses together
Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day
Although it is known to be the tailless cat, the Manx can be born with a stub or a short tail
A Selkirk slowly loses its naturally-born curly coat, but it grows again when the cat is around 8 months
A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute
Ragdoll cats live up to their name: they will literally go limp, with relaxed muscles, when lifted by a human
Unlike most other cats, the Turkish Van breed has a water-resistant coat and enjoys being in water
Webbed feet on a cat? The Peterbald's got 'em! They make it easy for the cat to get a good grip on things with skill
Despite appearing like a wild cat, the Ocicat does not have an ounce of wild blood
Cat's back claws aren't as sharp as the claws on their front paws
A group of kittens is called a kindle, and clowder is a term that refers to a group of adult cats
A third of cats' time spent awake is usually spent cleaning themselves
A female cat is also known to be called a queen or a molly
Want to call a hairball by its scientific name? Next time, say the word bezoar
Cats have a 5 toes on their front paws and 4 on each back paw
In multi-pet households, cats are able to get along especially well with dogs if they're introduced when the cat is under 6 months old and the dog is under one year old
Twenty-five percent of cat owners use a blow drier on their cats after bathing
Rather than nine months, cats' pregnancies last about nine weeks
It has been said that the Ukrainian Levkoy has the appearance of a dog, due to the angles of its face
A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump
Cats have a strong aversion to anything citrus
Cats would rather starve themselves than eat something they don't like. This means they will refuse an unpalatable -- but nutritionally complete -- food for a prolonged period
The Snow Leopard, a variety of the California Spangled Cat, always has blue eyes
The two outer layers of a cat's hair are called, respectively, the guard hair and the awn hair
When a household cat died in ancient Egypt, its owners showed their grief by shaving their eyebrows
Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats
Most kittens are born with blue eyes, which then turn color with age
A cat's meow is usually not directed at another cat, but at a human. To communicate with other cats, they will usually hiss, purr and spit.
According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens, four of them stillborn
As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.
Cats' rough tongues enable them to clean themselves efficiently and to lick clean an animal bone
Most cat litters contain four to six kittens
A Japanese cat figurine called Maneki-Neko is believed to bring good luck
One of Muhammad's companions was nicknamed Abu Hurairah, or Father of the Kitten, because he loved cats
Elvis Presley’s Chinese name is Mao Wong, or Cat King